The first version of the application shows the most basic Juzu application. Our application is declared in the
##examples.tutorial.weather1## package package annotated with the ##@Application## annotation This annotation declares a
Juzu application and does not require any mandatory value. Like classes, methods or fields, Java packages can be
annotated, such packages declaration are represented by a special file named ##package-info.java##.

Usually an application is made of controllers and templates, in this example, the ##Weather## Java class contains a method
annotated with the ##@View## annotation, which turns the ##Weather## class into a Juzu controller. The controller method
##index()## is the name of the default method that Juzu will call.

{{java}}
{@include examples.tutorial.weather1.Weather#index()}
{{/java}}

Methods annotated by ##@View## have the unique purpose of providing markup, they are called //view//. In our case,
the method delegates the rendering to the ##index.gtmpl## template. The template is injected in the controller thanks
to the ##@Inject## annotation and the ##@Path("index.gtmpl")## annotation.

{{java}}
{@include examples.tutorial.weather1.Weather#index}
{{/java}}

By default templates are located in the ##templates## package of the application, in our case the
##examples.tutorial.weather1.templates## package. The ##@Path## annotation specifies the path of the template in this
package. The templates are located in the same source tree than the java classes because the files must be available
for the Java compiler.
