LESS is a dynamic stylesheet language which extends CSS with dynamic behavior such as variables, mixins, operations
and functions. LESS is easy to learn thanks to the [[online documentation>>http://lesscss.org/]].

Juzu provides a LESS plugin that takes care of compiling a LESS stylesheet into a CSS stylesheet which
are then served by the Asset plugin. This chapter explains how to use LESS and combine it with the [[Asset plugin>>#assets]].

= Usage =

The LESS plugin operates at compilation time only because the only task he has to do is to transform a LESS
source code into a CSS stylesheet. The runtime part is usually done by the Asset plugin.

The ##@Less## annotation annotates a package containing an ##assets## package. This ##assets## package should contain
 the LESS files to be compiled.

{{example title="Annotating an application package for processing LESS files"}}
{{java}}
@Less("stylesheet.less")
@Application
package myapp;

import juzu.plugin.less.Less;
{{/java}}
{{/example}}

The //stylesheet.less// file will be located in the ##myapp.assets## package. The ##assets## child package of the
annotated package should contain the stylesheet, this is done on purpose to coincide exactly with the
##assets## package used by the Asset plugin. During the compilation phase the //stylesheet.less// will be compiled
to the //stylesheet.css//. If we want this file to be served with the application we simply add the corresponding
##@Asset## annotation:

{{example title="LESS and Asset plugins in action"}}
{{java}}
@Less("stylesheet.less")
@Assets(stylesheets = @Stylesheet(
  src = "stylesheet.css",
  location = AssetLocation.CLASSPATH)
)
@Application
package myapp;

import juzu.plugin.less.Less;
import juzu.plugin.asset.Asset;
import juzu.plugin.asset.Stylesheet;
{{/java}}
{{/example}}

By default LESS will use a default formatting for the generated CSS. To achieve smaller CSS size, a //minify// option
can be used, this option will trim the whitespace when processing the file : ##@Less(value = "stylesheet.less", minify = true)##.

= Building =

Add the Less plugin jar to your compilation classpath.

In Maven it can achieved by adding the Less plugin dependency to your POM:

{{xml}}
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.juzu</groupId>
  <artifactId>juzu-plugins-less</artifactId>
  <version>$[juzu.version]</version>
</dependency>
{{/xml}}
