Controllers are an essential part of a Juzu application.

= Controller methods =

Juzu controllers are simply annotated methods of the application, there are several kinds of controllers,
each kind of controller having a different purpose:

* View controllers annoted with the ##@org.juzu.View## annotation
* Action controllers annotated with the ##@org.juzu.Action## annotation
* Resource controllers annotated with the ##@org.juzu.Resource## annotation
* Event controllers annotated with the ##@org.juzu.Event## annotation (//not yet implemented//)

Controller methods can have parameters as phase parameters.

== View controllers ==

A view controller method produces aggregated markup for the application, it means that the invocation of the method
should produce markup that will be aggregated in larger page, therefore it should not care about the overall HTML
page.

View parameters describe the current parameters of the view, they are often used for navigation purpose in the application.
Juzu supports simple data types such as string and structured data types modelled by Java objects.

* Simple data types can be the following types ##String##, ##List<String>## and ##String[]##. Later this will be expanded
to more simple types such as number, etc..
* Structured data types : todo

View controller method should return a ##org.juzu.Response## object that is the content produced by the method. To be more precise
 it should return a ##Response.Content## or ##Response.Render## object (the latter being a subclass of the former) that contains
 everything Juzu needs to display the application.

##Response.Content## is a base class for content, it defines the ##send## method. Juzu invokes this method when it needs
to render the response produced by the view method. The invocation of the ##send## method will be performed after the view method
is invoked.

{{java}}
{@include org.juzu.Response.Content#send(org.juzu.io.Stream)}
{{/java}}

== Action controllers ==

An action controller method process an action for the application. It does not produce markup, instead it configures
the view parameters of the next view that Juzu will display.

== Resource controllers ==

Resource controllers are similar to view controllers, however the resource has full control over the target page.
It means that a resource controller must produce the entire resource and it can also chose the mime type returned. Resource
controllers have several use cases:

* Implement ajax resource serving
* Produce an application resource, such as an image, a script, etc...

== Event controllers ==

//not yet implemented//

= Controller object =

Obviously the controller methods belongs to
objects and the role played by controller objects are important too.

