Each request produces a response object: a subclass of the ##juzu.Response## class.

Response objects are returned by method processing phases, the class of the object determines the kind of response
sent to the client. A response object may carry additional objects such as assets (css or script).

Response object are created thanks to the static factory methods of the ##juzu.Response## class. The ##Response##
class is abstract and it has several subclasses that form a possible hierarchy of response adapted to the phase
being processed.

= Content responses =

A //content// response is a markup or binary data, it can be created with the ##ok## static method:

{{java}}
  public static Response.Content<Stream.Char> ok(CharSequence content) { ... }
{{/java}}

It can be used during a //view// or //resource// phase to return markup:

{{java}}
@View
public Response.Content index() {
  return Response.ok("Hello World");
}
{{/java}}

= Render response =

A //render// response extends a //content// response, it specializes it for aggregated markup, i.e a response where the
 application manages only one portion of the full page such as a portal:

{{java}}
@View
public Response.Content index() {
  return Response.ok("Hello World").withTitle("The Hello");
}
{{/java}}

= View response =

//View// response is returned after the //action// phase to configure the next //view// phase. Usually view responses are not
created directly using static factory methods, instead they are created using controller companion static methods, this will
be [[explained>>#controller_action_view]] in the controller chapter.

= Redirect response =

//Redirect// responses are returned during an //action// phase to redirect the user agent to an URL, its usage is simple:

{{java}}
@Action
public Response.Redirect process() {
  return Response.redirect("http://www.host.com/");
}
{{/java}}

= Error response =

//Error// response can be returned during any phase to signal an application error. This kind of response is different
from a content response with a 5xx status code, however it can be turned into a 5xx response to the client.

{{java}}
@View
public Response index() {
  try {
    ...
  } catch(IOException e) {
    return Response.error(e);
  }
}
{{/java}}

An error response can also be generated by the controller method by declaring the exception in its throw clause, so the
previous example is equivalent to:

{{java}}
@View
public Response index() throws IOException {
  ...
}
{{/java}}
